

‎Gemini - direct access to Google AI Gemini DDD, BDD, and TDD Explained https://gemini.google.com/share/9e1e9f402b01  Created with Fast January 7, 2026 at 03:19 AM Published February 17, 2026 at 02:13 PM You said  explain the differences in ddd, bdd, and tdd in software development While they all share the goal of creating high-quality software, DDD, BDD, and TDD operate at different "layers" of the development process. A common way to think about them is: DDD designs the blueprint, BDD defines the requirements, and TDD builds the individual bricks.1. TDD: Test-Driven DevelopmentFocus: Code Quality and Technical Correctness.TDD is a developer-centric workflow. You write a tiny test for a specific function before you write the code itself. It follows a strict Red-Green-Refactor cycle:Red: Write a test for a small bit of functionality and watch it fail.Green: Write just enough code to make the test pass.Refactor: Clean up the code while ensuring the test still passes.Primary Goal: To ensure the code works as the developer intended and to prevent bugs during future changes.2. BDD: Behavior-Driven DevelopmentFocus: System Behavior and User Value.BDD is an evolution of TDD that shifts the focus from "Is the code right?" to "Is this what the user wants?" It uses human-readable language (often Gherkin) to describe scenarios in a Given-When-Then format.Given: The initial context (e.g., "Given the user is logged in").When: The action taken (e.g., "When they click 'Checkout'").Then: The expected result (e.g., "Then they should see the order summary").Primary Goal: To bridge the communication gap between technical teams and business stakeholders, ensuring the team builds the right product.3. DDD: Domain-Driven DesignFocus: Business Logic and Architectural Complexity.Unlike the first two, DDD is a design philosophy rather than a testing practice. It focuses on modeling the software to match the complex "domain" of the business.+1Ubiquitous Language: Developers and business experts use the same terms (e.g., "Claim," "Policy," "Underwriter") in conversation and in the code.Bounded Contexts: Large systems are divided into logical boundaries (e.g., "Shipping" vs. "Inventory") so models don't get tangled.Primary Goal: To manage complexity in large-scale systems by aligning the software structure with the real-world business rules.Comparison SummaryFeatureTDDBDDDDDPerspectiveDeveloperUser / BusinessDomain ExpertQuestion Asked"Does the code work?""Is this the behavior we want?""Does the code model the business?"OutputUnit TestsExecutable SpecificationsDomain Model / ArchitectureTool ExamplesJUnit, PyTest, NUnitCucumber, SpecFlow, BehaveBounded Contexts, Entities, AggregatesExport to SheetsHow they work together:In a modern project, you might use DDD to map out your architecture, write BDD scenarios to define how a specific feature should behave for the user, and then use TDD to write the individual classes and functions that make that behavior a reality.Would you like me to walk through a specific example, such as an e-commerce checkout, to show how all three would be applied simultaneously? You said  where is the system analysis in these zoo? In the "zoo" of these modern methodologies, System Analysis isn't a separate cage—it is the oxygen that fills all of them.While traditional "System Analysis" used to be a distinct phase where an analyst wrote a 200-page document before coding started, in TDD, BDD, and DDD, that analysis is integrated directly into the development cycle.Here is where the "Analysis" is hiding in each:1. In DDD: The "Strategic" AnalysisIn Domain-Driven Design, analysis is the centerpiece. It happens during "Event Storming" or modeling sessions.The Analysis Task: Identifying what the business actually does, where the boundaries are (Bounded Contexts), and defining the "Ubiquitous Language."Where it lives: In the Domain Model. If you are arguing with a stakeholder about whether a "User" is the same thing as a "Customer," you are doing high-level System Analysis.2. In BDD: The "Requirement" AnalysisIn Behavior-Driven Development, analysis is the conversation. It happens during "Discovery" (often called the Three Amigos meeting).The Analysis Task: Turning vague business requests into concrete examples and "Given-When-Then" scenarios.Where it lives: In the Feature Files (Gherkin). These files are the requirements analysis, but they are executable. You are analyzing "What happens if the user has an expired credit card?" before a single line of code is written.3. In TDD: The "Technical" AnalysisIn Test-Driven Development, analysis is the design. It happens in the seconds before you write a unit test.The Analysis Task: Breaking a large behavior down into tiny, logical steps. You are analyzing the input, the output, and the edge cases of a specific function.Where it lives: In the Unit Tests. TDD forces you to perform a "micro-analysis" of your logic every few minutes.The Comparison: Analysis "Old" vs. "New"FeatureTraditional System AnalysisModern "Zoo" (DDD/BDD/TDD)When?Upfront (Analysis Phase)Continuous (Iterative)Who?Dedicated Systems AnalystThe whole team (Dev, QA, Business)Format?Static Document (PDF/Word)Living Documentation (Code/Tests/Models)Goal?Define the whole systemValidate the next small pieceExport to SheetsSummaryDDD analyzes the big picture (The Map).BDD analyzes the user journey (The Directions).TDD analyzes the engine parts (The Mechanics).Would you like to see how a "traditional" requirement like "Handle late payments" is analyzed differently through the lens of DDD versus BDD? You said  and how does the business analysis differ from system analysis in this paradigm? In this modern "zoo," the difference between Business Analysis (BA) and System Analysis (SA) is essentially a shift from "Why & What" to "How & With What."In the old days, a BA wrote a business document and an SA wrote a technical spec. Today, they work together to feed the DDD, BDD, and TDD engines.1. Business Analysis (The "Why" and the "Value")Business Analysis in this paradigm is about discovering the problem space. It’s the bridge between the boardroom and the team.In DDD: The BA identifies the Subdomains. They ask: "Is 'Invoicing' a core part of our competitive advantage, or can we buy a generic tool for it?"In BDD: The BA leads the "Discovery" phase. They talk to stakeholders to find out what a "successful" user journey looks like.The Artifact: They produce User Stories and high-level Business Rules.Key Question: "Does this feature actually make the company money or save time?"2. System Analysis (The "How" and the "Logic")System Analysis is about defining the solution space. It’s the bridge between the user story and the actual database/code.In DDD: The SA defines the Bounded Contexts and Aggregates. They figure out how the "Invoice" data in the Billing system talks to the "Order" data in the Shipping system.In BDD: The SA turns the BA’s vague "User wants to pay" into specific Scenarios. They define the edge cases: "What happens to the system if the third-party payment API is down for 5 seconds?"The Artifact: They produce Sequence Diagrams, API Definitions, and Data Models.Key Question: "How does the data flow between our internal systems to make the business goal happen?"The Comparison at a GlanceFeatureBusiness Analysis (BA)System Analysis (SA)FocusBusiness processes & ROISystem behavior & IntegrationLanguagePlain English / Domain termsUbiquitous Language / Technical specsDDD RoleIdentifies Core vs. Supporting domainsMaps out Bounded Contexts & EntitiesBDD RoleDefines the "Given/When/Then" intentDefines the technical criteria for successTDD RoleRarely involvedHelps devs understand the logic for unit testsExport to SheetsHow they interact in the "Zoo"Imagine a new feature: "Apply a 10% discount for Gold Members."Business Analysis: "We need this to increase loyalty. 'Gold Member' means anyone who spent $500 this year. The discount shouldn't apply to clearance items." (Value & Rule).System Analysis: "We need to query the OrderHistory service to calculate the $500. We'll need a new flag in the Product database for isClearance. We'll pass this via the PricingAPI." (Logic & Integration).BDD/TDD: These requirements are then fed into the automated tests to ensure the code actually does exactly what the SA designed and the BA intended.Would you like me to create a diagram or a template showing how a single requirement travels from a Business Analyst's idea through System Analysis and into a BDD test? You said  Recommend me courses or books where I can learn all of these. I am a system analytic now As a System Analyst, you are in the perfect position to bridge the gap between "what the business wants" and "how the code works." Your goal should be to focus on the Strategic side of these methodologies—how they help define requirements and system structure—rather than just the raw coding syntax.Here is a curated curriculum specifically for someone in an analytical role:1. The "Essential" BookshelfIf you only read three books, make them these. They focus more on the "Analysis" and "Design" than the typing.For BDD: Specification by Example by Gojko AdzicWhy for an Analyst: This is the "Gold Standard." It doesn’t focus on code; it focuses on how to turn business goals into "living documentation." It’s arguably the most important book for a modern System Analyst.For DDD: Domain-Driven Design Distilled by Vaughn VernonWhy for an Analyst: The original "Blue Book" by Eric Evans is a masterpiece but very dense. Vernon’s Distilled version is short, practical, and explains "Bounded Contexts" and "Ubiquitous Language" in a way that you can immediately apply to your system diagrams.For TDD: Test-Driven Development by Example by Kent BeckWhy for an Analyst: Even if you don't code daily, reading the first half of this book helps you understand the mindset of a developer. It helps you see how requirements are broken down into the smallest possible logical units.2. Recommended Online CoursesThese courses are selected for their high-level conceptual clarity.[Coursera] Introduction to Test and Behavior Driven DevelopmentProvider: IBM / CourseraFocus: This is a great entry point. It covers the "Why" and the "Workflow" of both TDD and BDD. It helps you understand how the QA and Dev roles merge in these paradigms.[Pluralsight] Domain-Driven Design FundamentalsInstructors: Steve Smith & Julie LermanFocus: This is widely considered the best video introduction to DDD. It uses a real-world project (a clinic) to show how to move from a messy business problem to a clean system model.[Udemy] BDD with Cucumber and GherkinFocus: Look for courses that focus on writing Gherkin. As a System Analyst, your "code" will often be Gherkin feature files. Learning the syntax of Given, When, Then is a direct upgrade to your current documentation skills.3. The "System Analyst" Learning PathTo master these as an analyst, I recommend following this order:Phase 1: BDD (Communication). Start here because it's closest to traditional requirement gathering. Learn how to facilitate a "Three Amigos" meeting where you, the Dev, and the Tester agree on examples.Phase 2: DDD (Structure). Learn how to group your requirements into "Bounded Contexts." Instead of one giant system diagram, learn to create several smaller, decoupled models.Phase 3: TDD (Execution). Understand the cycle so you know what the developers need from your analysis. They need testable requirements. If your requirement can't be turned into a test, it's not finished.Pro-Tip: "Event Storming"As a System Analyst, search for "Event Storming" workshops or videos (Alberto Brandolini is the creator). It is a rapid modeling technique that uses sticky notes to map out a domain. It is the most practical way to "do" DDD and BDD analysis in a room full of people.Would you like me to find a specific "Gherkin" (BDD) template you can use to start writing your system requirements next week? You said  Write a comprehensive article based on our discussion. I will share it among my command This article is designed for a professional audience of System Analysts, Architects, and Project Leads. It frames the "Zoo" of modern methodologies—DDD, BDD, and TDD—as a unified strategy for building resilient software.Beyond the Requirements Document: The Analyst’s Guide to DDD, BDD, and TDDIn the traditional software lifecycle, the System Analyst (SA) often acted as a relay runner, passing a heavy baton of documentation to developers who then vanished into a "black box" of coding. In the modern "Zoo" of software methodologies—Domain-Driven Design (DDD), Behavior-Driven Development (BDD), and Test-Driven Development (TDD)—that baton has been replaced by a continuous conversation.For a System Analyst, these are not just "developer tools." They are sophisticated frameworks for requirement precision and risk mitigation.1. The Strategy: Domain-Driven Design (DDD)The Analyst's Role: Identifying the Map.DDD is the "Big Picture" layer. It acknowledges that as systems grow, they become tangled. The SA’s job in DDD is to prevent a "Big Ball of Mud" by enforcing boundaries.Bounded Contexts: Instead of one giant database, we divide the system into logical areas (e.g., Sales vs. Support). A "Customer" might mean something different in each.Ubiquitous Language: The SA ensures that the words used by the business (e.g., "Policyholder") are the exact same words used in the code. This eliminates "translation errors" between the business and the engineers.+12. The Bridge: Behavior-Driven Development (BDD)The Analyst's Role: Defining the Journey.BDD is where Business Analysis meets System Analysis. It transforms vague desires into Executable Specifications. Using the Gherkin syntax (Given/When/Then), the SA helps the team agree on exactly how a feature should behave before it is built.The "Three Amigos": The SA, the Developer, and the Tester meet to discuss a feature. The SA provides the business context, the Dev discusses technical constraints, and the Tester identifies edge cases.Living Documentation: Because BDD scenarios are linked to automated tests, your requirements document is never out of date. If the test fails, the documentation is "wrong," and vice versa.3. The Tactics: Test-Driven Development (TDD)The Analyst's Role: Enforcing Logic.While TDD is primarily a developer's workflow (Red-Green-Refactor), the SA provides the acceptance criteria that make TDD possible.Micro-Analysis: TDD forces the developer to analyze the inputs and outputs of every single function.The Safety Net: For the SA, TDD provides peace of mind. It ensures that the technical logic—the "plumbing" of the system—is verified at every step, preventing regression bugs when new business rules are added.Analysis: Business vs. System in the New ParadigmIn this ecosystem, the line between Business and System Analysis becomes a productive partnership rather than a silo:LayerFocusKey QuestionBusiness AnalysisThe Value"Why are we building this, and what is the ROI?"System AnalysisThe Logic"How does the data flow between contexts to achieve that value?"Export to SheetsThe Lifecycle of a RequirementBA identifies a business need (e.g., "Reduce churn by offering loyalty discounts").SA applies DDD to determine where this logic lives (e.g., it belongs in the "Pricing" context, not the "Inventory" context).SA and the team use BDD to write scenarios (e.g., "Given a user has 500 points, when they check out, then apply 10%").Devs use TDD to build the specific math functions that calculate that 10% accurately.Conclusion: The Modern Analyst’s ToolkitTo succeed in this environment, a System Analyst must move away from "static specs" and toward facilitation and modeling.Learn to Model: Use DDD to visualize system boundaries.Learn to Write Gherkin: Become the master of "Given-When-Then" to eliminate ambiguity.Embrace the Conversation: Your value is no longer in the length of your document, but in the clarity of the shared understanding you create within the team.Suggested Next Step for the CommandTo see this in action, would you like me to draft a "Three Amigos" Meeting Template? This is a practical tool you can use to facilitate the transition from a business requirement to a BDD-ready specification. You said  You forgot to add "Reading List"  That is a crucial addition. For a System Analyst, the right reading material acts as a bridge between high-level business strategy and low-level technical execution.Here is the comprehensive Reading List categorized by how these topics apply to your role.Phase 1: The Strategic Foundation (DDD)These books help you analyze the "Big Picture" and organize complex business rules."Domain-Driven Design Distilled" by Vaughn VernonThe "Quick Start": This is the best entry point for an analyst. It skips the heavy code and focuses on Bounded Contexts and Ubiquitous Language."Implementing Domain-Driven Design" by Vaughn VernonThe "Deep Dive": Once you understand the basics, this provides the tactical patterns (Aggregates, Entities, Value Objects) that you'll use to design system logic."Domain Storytelling" by Stefan Hofer and Henning SchwentnerThe "Analyst's Tool": This teaches a visual modeling method to capture requirements alongside domain experts using simple pictograms.Phase 2: The Collaboration Layer (BDD)These books focus on how to turn "Business Requirements" into "Technical Specifications.""Specification by Example" by Gojko AdzicThe "Must-Read": This is the definitive guide on how to deliver the right software through collaboration and concrete examples."BDD in Action" by John Ferguson SmartThe "Manual": A thorough look at the whole BDD lifecycle, from discovery to test automation."The Cucumber Book" by Matt Wynne and Aslak HellesøyThe "Language Guide": Even if you don't run the tests, this book teaches you how to write perfect Gherkin (Given/When/Then) that developers can actually use.Phase 3: The Quality & Logic Layer (TDD)These help you understand the developer’s "micro-analysis" process."Test-Driven Development by Example" by Kent BeckThe "Classic": Written by the father of TDD. It’s short and demonstrates the "Red-Green-Refactor" mindset perfectly."Clean Architecture" by Robert C. MartinThe "System View": While not strictly about TDD, it explains how to structure a system so that it is testable—which is a core responsibility of a System Analyst.Summary Checklist for Your CommandIf you want to...Read this first...Fix communication gapsSpecification by ExampleOrganize a messy, complex systemDDD DistilledWrite better requirementsDomain StorytellingUnderstand the developer's workflowTDD by ExampleExport to SheetsWould you like me to find a specific video tutorial that demonstrates an "Event Storming" session so you can see how analysts and developers collaborate in real-time?DDD & BDD - The Strategy of Modern Software
This video provides a solid overview of how these methodologies integrate into a modern developer's career and system design workflow.10 Books to Read in 2026 to Become a Better Developer - YouTubeproflead · 1.9K views You said  Generate a mermaid diagram that shows the workflow of the business, ba, sa, and the three amigos  You said  I said I need a mermaid diagram - code, you know? My apologies! I understand you need the actual Mermaid.js code that you can render in a markdown viewer or use in your documentation.This diagram illustrates how the Business, BA, and SA funnel their analysis into the Three Amigos session, which then triggers the BDD and TDD cycles.Code snippetgraph TD
    %% Roles/Actors
    subgraph Stakeholders
        BUS[Business Stakeholders]
    end

    subgraph Analysis_Phase [Continuous Analysis]
        BA[Business Analyst]
        SA[System Analyst]
    end

    subgraph The_Bridge [BDD Discovery]
        AMIGOS{{The Three Amigos Meeting}}
        GHERKIN[Gherkin Feature Files / User Scenarios]
    end

    subgraph Execution_Phase [Development Cycle]
        DEV[Developer]
        QA[Tester/QA]
        TDD_LOOP[TDD Cycle: Red-Green-Refactor]
    end

    %% Workflow Connections
    BUS -->|Defines Goals & Value| BA
    BA -->|DDD: Maps Domains & Rules| SA
    SA -->|DDD: Defines Bounded Contexts| AMIGOS
    BA -->|User Stories| AMIGOS
    
    %% The Three Amigos Interaction
    AMIGOS --- DEV
    AMIGOS --- QA
    AMIGOS -->|Output| GHERKIN

    %% Technical Execution
    GHERKIN -->|Input for| TDD_LOOP
    TDD_LOOP -->|Implements| DEV
    DEV -->|Automated Tests| QA
    QA -->|Validates Behavior| GHERKIN

    %% Styling
    style AMIGOS fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style GHERKIN fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style TDD_LOOP fill:#dfd,stroke:#333
Key Workflow Breakdown for your Command:Strategic Analysis (DDD): The BA and SA work together to ensure the business problem is mapped correctly. The SA specifically ensures the "System" logic doesn't violate business boundaries.The Nexus (Three Amigos): This is the most critical meeting. It includes the BA/SA, the Developer, and the Tester. They use BDD principles to turn requirements into concrete examples.The Contract (Gherkin): The output of that meeting is a Gherkin file (Given/When/Then). This is the "Truth." It serves as the requirement for the BA, the test plan for the QA, and the coding goal for the Dev.The Implementation (TDD): The Developer uses those Gherkin scenarios to drive their TDD process, ensuring that the code is technically sound and meets the system analysis.Would you like me to provide a Gherkin template for a specific system requirement (like a user login or a payment process) to include as an example in your article? You said  draft a "Three Amigos" Meeting Template To complete your article for the command, here is a professional Three Amigos Meeting Template. This template is designed to move the team from a vague business request to a "ready-to-code" technical specification.Template: The Three Amigos Discovery SessionProject: [Project Name]Feature/User Story: [ID & Title]Date: [Date]Participants: * The BA/SA (Business/System Perspective): [Name]The Developer (Technical Perspective): [Name]The Tester (Quality Perspective): [Name]1. The "Why" (Strategic Alignment)To be filled by the BA/SA before the meeting.Business Goal: What problem are we solving? (e.g., "Reduce checkout friction").Domain (DDD): Which Bounded Context does this belong to? (e.g., "Payments Context").Success Metric: How do we know this works?2. Feature Discovery (The Conversation)During the meeting, the team discusses the "Happy Path" and "Edge Cases." Use this section to capture the rules.Business RuleScenario DescriptionRule 1: Eligibilitye.g., Only "Gold" status users get the 10% discount.Rule 2: Limitationse.g., Discounts cannot be combined with clearance items.Rule 3: Constraintse.g., Minimum purchase must be $50.Export to Sheets3. The "Given-When-Then" (BDD Output)Collaboratively draft at least one concrete example. This becomes the Gherkin file.Scenario: Successful discount application for eligible userGiven a user has a "Gold" membership statusAnd the user has $60 worth of non-clearance items in their cartWhen the user proceeds to the checkout summaryThen a discount of 10% should be applied to the totalAnd the final price should reflect the deduction.4. System Analysis & Constraints (The "How")The SA and Developer identify technical impacts.Data Impact: Do we need a new field in the User table for "Status"?Integrations: Does the Pricing Engine need to call the Loyalty Service?Performance: Does this calculation need to happen in real-time or via a background job?5. Definition of Ready (Checklist)The story is only "Ready for Dev" if all three Amigos agree on the following:[ ] The business value is clear.[ ] All "What if?" questions (edge cases) have been addressed.[ ] The Gherkin scenario is written and understood.[ ] The System Analyst has confirmed the data/API requirements.Why this works for your Command:By using this template, the System Analyst ensures that no code is written until the Business Analyst's intent and the Tester's concerns are aligned. This reduces "rework" and ensures the TDD cycle that follows is building the right thing.Would you like me to compile all of these sections—the article, the reading list, the Mermaid code, and this template—into a single formatted document (like a Markdown file) for you to copy and share? Google Privacy Policy  Opens in a new window  Google Terms of Service  Opens in a new window  Your privacy & Gemini Apps  Opens in a new window Gemini may display inaccurate info, including about people, so double-check its responses. Continue this chat Google AccountVadim Rudakovlefthand67@gmail.comCopy public linkReport